CASTLE: There are
two kinds of folks
who sit around thinking
about how to kill people:
psychopaths and mystery writers.
I'm the kind that pays better.
Who am I?
I'm Rick Castle.
Castle. Castle.
I really am
ruggedly handsome.
aren't I?
Every writer needs inspiration
and I found mine.
Detective Kate Beckett.
Beckett. Beckett.
"Nikki Heat"?
The character
he's basing on you.
And thanks to my friendship
with the mayor.
I get to be on her case.
I'd be happy
to let you spank me.
And together we catch killers.
We make a pretty good team.
you know.
Like Starsky and Hutch.
Turner and Hooch.
You do remind me
a little of Hooch.
PHOTOGRAPHER: Sexy. sexy.
Ladies. I love it.
I love it. I love it.
Sexy. Sexy's not a crime.
FEMALE REPORTER:
What's so special
about world-famous
mystery novelist Richard Castle?
He's rich. he's handsome.
and he's basing his next
best seller on you.
Tell me. Detective Beckett.
what's it like being
the inspiration
for thrill-master
Richard Castle's
new character. Nikki Heat?
On behalf of the NYPD.
it has been a pleasure to
offer Mr. Castle insight
into the profession.
Given all his
best sellers.
it's obvious
Mr. Castle
has tremendous insight
into the criminal mind.
I'm told in many occasions.
his participation was
essential to solving
your toughest cases.
Really? You were
told that? By who?
By Castle.
PHOTOGRAPHER: Sexy.
Try unbuttoning his shirt.
Just. just the first one
right there.
Could you excuse me
for a moment?
PHOTOGRAPHER:
Yeah. I love it.
Sir. could I talk
to you in private
for a moment. please?
Beckett. I have a couple...
Now.
We had a deal. Beckett.
The deal is off.
What's the problem?
Not only does he have
the bachelor-party
cop twins out there
using him as a stripper pole
while I make nicey-nice
with the press.
but do you know
what he said?
No.
He said that he has been
instrumental in helping us
solve crimes.
Well. hasn't he?
That's not the point.
Do you know how
hard it is for NYPD
to get good press?
I mean. in a magazine
that people actually read?
This article is
very important
to the mayor.
therefore we are
going to cooperate.
Do I make myself clear?
Okay. Fine.
RYAN: It was nice
to meet you.
We should have
photo shoots here
more often.
Hey. Beckett.
how come you don't wear
a uniform like that?
Because I don't wanna
get paid in singles.
Hey.
RYAN: Oh. hey.
don't we have
that thing?
No.
Yeah. You know.
the thing with the guy.
Oh. yeah.
The thing with the guy.
Yeah. excuse us.
I just wanted you to know
I had nothing to do with this.
I mean. it was the magazine.
Well. the mayor thought
it would be good press.
You don't have to
explain yourself.
Really?
Really. See?
I don't care anymore.
Now. if you'll excuse me.
I have an interview
to get back to.
What did I do that was so wrong?
The one thing
I asked you not to do.
Okay. so you asked me
not to look into your
mother's murder.
But look at what I found.
It doesn't matter
what you found.
I put that all
behind me
a long time ago.
We can get back to
the interview now.
Nope. you're gonna
have to reschedule.
We just caught a body.
So sorry to step
out on you. Amy.
Oh! Are you kidding?
It's perfect.
A chance to see Castle
in action. Our readers'll
love it.
Well. we wouldn't want to
disappoint your readers.
now. would we. Detective?
(SIRENS WAILING)
Hey. can we talk
about this. please?
There's nothing to talk about.
Well. just at least
let me know what I can
do to make it up to you.
You could leave me alone.
Yes. well. I tried that.
and it didn't work.
Hey. I could buy you a pony!
Focus. Castle.
Crime scene. okay?
It's raining men.
Castle. what are you doing here?
Don't worry.
We're still mad at him.
A guy in a tree.
Mom and Dad bickering.
Seems like old times.
How's it going up there?
I got tree branches
poking my boobs
and spotlights
shining up my booty.
Could be worse.
You could be
wearing a skirt.
When I come down.
I'm gonna smack you.
I'll be looking forward to that.
Here.
Vic's a white male. late 30s.
Judging from
the cracked branches.
I'm guessing he did
a Superman off the top
of that building.
ESPOSITO: Vic's name
is John Allen.
ID has him on
the Upper West Side.
Business card has him
in insurance.
Hmm.
Is it a suicide?
BOTH: It's not a suicide.
How do you know?
The building is too short.
He'd wanna kill himself.
not cripple himself.
If you wanna die.
you're gonna aim for
concrete. not a tree.
Judging from
the angle of descent.
I'd say that guy
was thrown off
the building.
Since it clearly
wasn't a suicide.
how did he die?
There are signs
of strangulation.
It looks like his
windpipe was crushed.
Any ligature marks?
LANIE: Nope.
Ligature refers to
anything that ties
or binds.
like a rope or a belt.
The lack of any marks
suggest he was
strangled by hand.
Wow. you really know your stuff.
No wonder they like
having you around.
BECKETT: You know what?
He's such an incredible
resource.
it seems like a shame
to waste his talents
here in the field.
Would you mind going back
to the morgue with Dr. Parish
to see what else
you can find out
about the vic?
Don't you think I'd
be of more use here
at the crime scene?
Oh. no. We're just
gonna knock on doors
and see what we
else can stir up.
You know. boring police stuff.
Fine. But I was serious
about the pony.
Come on. I'll show you
the morgue-mobile.
Anything in the wallet?
Nope.
Dry-cleaning ticket. ID.
two credit cards.
Cash was missing. though.
That's a long way
to go for a robbery.
You mean we have to
ride with the body?
You can take my seat up front.
You sure?
I'm used to hanging out
with stiffs.
Hi.
Uh-uh. You do not
get to say hi to me.
I'm just doing my girl a favor.
You. too. huh?
Well. what did you expect?
Beckett spent
the first three years
of being a cop
trying to solve
her mother's murder.
It took everything
that she had to
put it behind her.
You couldn't respect that?
What was I supposed to do?
Not tell her what I found?
What you found?
She didn't tell you. did she?
Three people were killed
the same way her mother was.
right about the same time.
One of them was a former
law student of hers.
Another one. a documents clerk.
The third one.
a lawyer for
a non-profit.
Wait. The ME at the time
didn't make the connection?
If he did. he buried it.
Did you talk to him?
He died four years ago.
So you see why
I had to tell her.
What did she say?
That we were done.
And then she just walked...
(CRASHING)
Don't move.
Don't move!
Whoa!
THUG 1: Get the body!
Go! Don't move!
Come on. move! Go!
Is it just me.
or was that really.
really weird?
MONTGOMERY: Well?
He'll live.
What. no brain damage?
If he has some.
it happened way
before tonight
and was probably self-inflicted.
Good times.
How's Lois Lane?
Who. reporter chick?
Yeah. We took her statement
and we sent her home.
We got an APB on the sedan.
CSUs are combing the rooftop.
and we got unis looking
for surveillance footage
at the crash site.
You know what I don't get is.
who would steal a dead body?
Plenty of people.
Organ harvesters.
cadaver-less med students.
Satanists.
mad scientists
looking to create
their own monster.
Or the guys who killed him
might have left some
evidence behind.
Boring. How about a spy
having swallowed
a top-secret microchip
that the enemy forces
murder him over
before the CIA can
get a hold of him?
As much as we all
appreciate your insightful
and incredibly
believable theories.
Ms. Cosmo is gone.
so I believe you can
go home now.
Home? No. No. no. no.
This case just got good.
And I'm a witness.
All right.
I'll let you work
this one case with me
if you promise
to leave me alone
when it's over
and not to weasel
your way back in.
Deal. But fair warning.
Detective.
I will make you
change your mind.
I won't.
You will.
CASTLE: So what's
the next step?
Victim's family?
I didn't think
she'd take him back.
(KNOCKING ON DOOR)
Mrs. Allen?
Yes?
It's about your husband.
He was just right here.
just a couple of hours ago.
And now he's dead.
Do you know of any
reason why he'd be
in that part of town?
No. His office is in Midtown.
It's nowhere near Ninth.
What time did he leave
the apartment?
Around 6:00.
He'd just gotten back
from his trip
and he said he
needed to catch up
on some paperwork.
He said he'd only be gone
for a couple of hours.
You said "a trip"?
He was in Albuquerque
on a training seminar.
It was just two nights.
Did you notice anything
unusual recently?
Any strange behavior?
Well. he had to work late
a little more often
than usual.
but. I mean.
in this economy.
who doesn't?
He had to lay off
half his department
last year.
And you're sure
he was working late?
What are you saying?
That he was cheating?
Every night.
he would walk
through that door.
and the kids would just
race into his arms. okay?
And now he's gone.
So don't ask me
if he was really
working late.
Tell me why he was killed.
He didn't mean to imply...
What about phone calls?
Maybe late at night?
Castle.
Yeah. Yeah.
One of the guys that
John fired. Max Haverstock.
he would call him up
late at night
and he would yell at him.
all sorts of things.
I guess he was hurting.
he needed money.
And I. I told John
that he should just
hang up on him.
and John said no.
he couldn't do that.
Did he ever give him money?
My husband didn't
believe in handouts.
He believed that a man
should make his way.
Where is he?
I'd like to say goodbye.
About that. um...
That was awkward.
It just. it doesn't
make any sense.
The guy's got a stable.
middle-class life.
Good job. good family.
Maybe his friend Max
was jealous.
Yeah. maybe enough to
kill him. but to steal
his body?
Hey. Esposito. I need you
to look up a friend
of the vic. Max Haverstock.
Yeah.
Okay. find him and bring him in.
Dad. Thank God you're home.
Are you okay?
Yeah. I'm fine. Why?
"Fine"? Masked gunmen.
body snatchers?
I texted you. like.
a thousand times.
I'm sorry. My phone
must have been off.
How did you know?
Beckett called.
Really?
She just wanted
to let us know
you were all right.
Mmm-hmm.
So. has she forgiven you?
Not exactly. Mother.
But I'm working on it.
She has agreed to let me
help on the case.
Well. that's a start. I suppose.
It is more than a start.
It is an opportunity.
She may have built
a wall between us.
but I am going
to build a door
in that wall.
or put up a ladder.
or dig a hole.
You have a strategy?
Be my usual charming self.
Uh-huh.
What about plan B?
So was it awful?
Were you scared?
Me. scared?
No way. Come on.
Now excuse me
while I change
my shorts.
Dad.
No. I was scared.
but all they were
after was the body.
Why?
Why indeed?
"Dad. where are you?"
"Dad. are you all right?"
"Dad. call us right away."
"Dad. can I go see Fame
with Owen on Friday?"
Your concern is touching.
Okay. that one
was after I knew
you were all right.
Yeah. but I thought
we were gonna go see
that together.
We were. and we still can.
But he invited me
to go see it with him
next Friday.
You'd rather go
with your boyfriend
than your dad?
What is wrong with you?
If you really want me
to go with you. I will.
No. no. You tell Owen
he has won this round.
but I got dibs on
A Christmas Carol.
Thanks. Dad.
And I'm glad you weren't
killed by body snatchers.
Me. too.
They remade Fame
and A Christmas Carol.
Has Hollywood totally
run out of ideas?
Well. they just optioned
Asteroids. the videogame.
so my guess is yes.
But Ryan Reynolds is
playing the wee triangle.
and he's good.
Are you sure this is the guy?
Maxwell Haverstock.
And he confirmed
he knew the vic.
This guy couldn't throw
a wet sponge off the roof.
let alone a body.
Mr. Haverstock?
Yes?
Do you know why you're here?
No. they just told me
I needed to come in.
It's about John Allen.
He was murdered last night.
That's terrible.
You and he were friends.
We had adjoining cubicles.
When was the last time
you saw him?
Not since D-Day.
That's what we called it.
You know.
"D" for "downsizing."
You were let go?
Yeah.
I bet that made you
pretty angry.
Yeah. Fifteen years
we worked there together.
you know.
You'd think that
would mean something.
You think that loyalty
would be worth something.
You know what it's worth?
A kick in the teeth!
Did you ever call
and tell John that?
Yeah. all the time.
Yeah. I told him
we didn't deserve to be
treated like that.
But I promised him
one day the worm
would turn.
'cause karma's
a nasty little bitch.
Is that why you killed him?
Who?
John.
Why would I wanna kill John?
For firing you.
He didn't fire me.
We were let go
together on D-Day.
Fortunately. I was able
to find another job.
He didn't have a job?
I guess he doesn't have
to look for one anymore.
Hey. yo. Beckett.
Story checks.
John Allen was laid off
eight months ago
when the AIG crisis hit.
What about Albuquerque?
No record of a John Allen
coming back from any flight
in the Tri-State area.
Well. makes you wonder
what else he lied
to his wife about.
And how he paid
all of his bills.
Beckett.
All right. Thank you.
They found his body. Again.
(CAMERA CLICKING)
What happened?
Someone operated on him.
Operated?
They cut him open
and took all of
his organs out.
(MEN EXCLAIMING IN DISGUST)
Well. somebody hated his guts.
LANIE: The guys
who did this
weren't surgeons.
The cuts are sloppy.
Box cutters
and kitchen knives.
Any idea what they
were looking for?
I ran a tox screen
and found nothing
in the bloodstream.
But in the body cavity itself
there were trace amounts of
powder cocaine.
He was their drug mule.
Guess they couldn't wait for him
to pass the packets
the old-fashioned way.
I don't buy it.
How does a middle-aged
insurance actuary
with no history
of substance abuse.
no criminal record.
become a drug mule?
I mean. this was not
a bad guy.
You don't just fill out
an ad on Craigslist.
You gotta.
you gotta know people.
Bad people.
As freaky as all this is.
let's not forget
it happened post mortem.
The actual cause
of death is up here.
Bruise pattern indicates
the assailant strangled him
with both hands.
The bruising is
a little lighter
right there.
What would account for that?
Dislocated or
broken finger. maybe.
Maybe he's fancy.
Strangle people with
his pinky sticking out.
Like tea.
Just got off
with Homeland Security.
Passport records indicate
that John Allen was
coming back from Mexico.
not New Mexico.
No criminal history.
healthy. white.
middle-class.
They wouldn't have
looked at him twice
at customs.
The guy had skills.
Why would he do
something so stupid?
RYAN: Because he had to.
I just went over
financials with the wife.
How bad?
They've been living
on credit cards
the last six months.
And she had no idea.
She thought everything
was fine.
Well. if he wasn't
going to work every day.
where was he going?
Applying for jobs.
I found hundreds
of cover letters and
resumes on his computer.
I don't understand.
Why didn't they just
sell the apartment?
Wasn't worth the mortgage.
That's harsh.
Life insurance?
Stopped making payments
four months ago.
The guy was
basically worthless.
alive or dead.
(CELL PHONE RINGING)
Hey. Ryan here.
You know. I get desperation.
I get needing the money.
I even get being a drug mule.
What I don't get is.
where did he get the job?
Yeah. thanks. Bill.
That was CSU.
Because our perps
were wearing gloves.
the only prints
they grabbed off the car
belonged to the owner
who reported it stolen
last night.
Looks like we're not gonna
grab a break on this one.
What about the glove
we found at the scene?
Dusted it. too. Nothing.
Well. did you dust inside?
Inside?
Yeah. inside the glove.
You want me to
put on some music?
Whenever they do this
sort of thing on CSI.
they always do it to music
in poorly-lit rooms.
It kind of reminds me of porn.
Zip it. Castle.
Ever consider becoming a mohel?
Keep talking and
I'll practice on you.
Got you. you son of a bitch.
Boom! Got a hit.
Luther Whitehead.
busted twice for
possession with intent.
once on conspiracy.
Pled out on all three.
Did a nickel upstate
for a gun charge
and is currently on parole
for conspiracy to distribute.
Something tells me
his parole's about
to be revoked.
You got an address?
Yeah.
(ROCK MUSIC PLAYING)
LUTHER: Go!
OFFICER 1:
Hold it right there!
OFFICER 2: Nobody move!
OFFICER 3: Hands behind
your back. Hands!
BECKETT: Counselor.
I have them dead to rights
on weapons. possession. assault.
desecration of a body.
and about a dozen
other things
I haven't even begun
to think about yet.
What is my incentive
to cut a deal?
You don't have them
on the murder.
Give me time.
You don't need time.
because they didn't do it.
Ten years concurrent
on all charges.
eligible in five.
and they'll tell you
everything they know.
He was coming to see you.
At a flophouse on Ninth.
He was supposed to be
there by 7:00.
But this guy. he got
three quarters of a mil worth
of our coke in his stomach.
and he don't show.
So what'd you do?
We went to find him.
That's when we heard
the sirens. Lots of them.
We go downstairs.
walk up the block
and guess what we see?
A bunch of cops
staring at a tree.
A frigging tree.
The dude was in a tree!
So you waited?
Only way to get the body back.
I mean. we couldn't
get the packets
via the usual method.
So you improvised.
Doesn't matter.
He was already dead.
So why'd he start muling?
Same as anyone.
Desperation.
It's just.
he doesn't seem the type.
Anybody's the type.
you push them hard enough.
I mean. the guy owed.
He was fourth and long
with the clock running out.
Who was he in to?
Didn't say. but he was scared.
You wanna know
who killed him.
you find out who he owed.
No. no. no. no.
I'm gonna need more.
I'm gonna need to know
who vouched.
Vouched?
For John Allen.
Our vic. your mule.
Somebody brought him to you.
somebody you trusted.
Or do you just do
business with every
desperate white boy
with no history of
criminal activity?
Hell. man!
How'd you know
he wasn't a cop?
Got the printout.
Ron Bigby.
He's a floor trader at Goldman.
Vic's wife never heard the name.
CASTLE: For a guy
who assesses risk
for a living.
he sure does seem
to take a lot of it.
Yeah. well. look
where it got him.
Pick him up.
You got it.
BECKETT: Castle.
Dead?
Yeah.
BECKETT: Mr. Bigby.
you can ask
as often as you like.
The answer's not gonna change.
That is a damn shame.
That is a damn. damn shame.
I mean. do you know
who John Allen is? Huh?
He's the new
Willy Loman. Okay?
Everyman victim of
an apathetic world.
God. I swear.
someone should
write a play.
Hey. do you write plays?
Unproduced.
Mr. Bigby. it's come to our
attention that you recently
obtained employment
for Mr. Allen
as a drug mule.
You know about that?
Yeah. And bad news. Ron.
You're gonna have to
find a new dealer.
What'd they tell you?
That you got him
an introduction.
and that you vouched
for Mr. Allen.
Okay. look. He came to me.
desperate. All right?
He remembered a story
I told one night
at the table.
The table?
Yeah. poker table.
We're in one of
the floating games
around town.
You know. small stakes.
right. but a good way
to blow off steam.
But then
when he got laid off.
it stopped being a game.
He started betting
to make up his paycheck.
but the stakes were too low.
So he went to Chinatown.
The mob-run games.
Yeah. Triads. He did
fine for a bit. you know.
but luck's a fickle bitch.
He lost more than he had
to the wrong guy.
He couldn't make enough
to cover his losses.
Yeah. that's when he
remembered the night
I told the story
about my own fiscal emergency.
about how I went to Mexico
and made 50 grand in one day.
That's when I figured.
"Hey. what the hell.
Just pay it forward."
All right.
this guy that he owed.
Did he give you
a description?
A name?
No name. John thought
he was Russian mafia
because of all his tattoos.
RYAN: Some tatted-up
Russian mobster was
after me.
I could see taking
a job as a drug mule.
ESPOSITO:
A tattooed Russian
in New York City?
Well. that narrows it down.
We conduct an investigation
based on the information
we have.
not the evidence we need.
Well. Bigby says that
the Russian hangs out
at the club in Chinatown.
Why don't we just go there?
The games are
word-of-mouth. bro.
They don't just share with cops.
Well. luckily.
I'm not a cop.
Castle.
What? It's perfect.
I go in.
scope the place out
until I ID the Russian.
Hey. you know.
that's not a bad plan.
We still have to find the game.
Leave that to me.
It's a pretty good story. Ricky.
Yeah. it's got
a big opening.
major twist.
Though I gotta say.
I saw that whole
"drug mule" thing coming.
Nice try. Connelly.
You're not gonna
goad me into raising.
Stephen. you once wrote
about an underground
poker game in King Con.
Yeah.
And you once
had Harry Bosch
investigate the murder
of a poker player.
Yeah. One Dollar Jackpot.
Why?
Well. Michael.
this guy that
we're looking for.
he's a regular in
the Triad-run games
in Chinatown.
I thought maybe
one of you knew someone
who could get me in?
What. are you nuts?
Those are crooks and
killers down there.
Look. Ricky.
Doing the research
is one thing.
but the Russian mafia?
The Triad?
You tangle with those people.
and all the best sellers
in the world are not gonna
protect you.
I know. I know.
I don't plan on tangling.
I'm just gonna be
another rich.
bored thrill-seeker
looking to try
my luck down there.
You must really like her.
Who?
That police detective
of yours. Look. Rick.
There's only one reason
that you'd be dumb enough
to go down there.
and that's to impress a girl.
Why don't you cut yourself
a little slack and just buy
her some flowers?
Do you know the place or not?
Well?
Are you sure this is the place?
Cannell has never
steered me wrong.
Okay. Button cam's
in place. Ryan?
In place. Ryan?
Good for picture and...
picture and...
Sound.
All right. So remember.
we can hear you.
but you can't hear us.
So once you leave this van.
you're on your own. okay?
All right. tell me
the plan again.
I go in. I find
the tattooed Russian.
I get a clear picture
of him. and I get
the hell out of there.
And you don't
stay any longer
than you need to.
I'll be fine.
Besides. it's Chinatown.
How many Russian poker
players can there be?
Anybody else have
a bad feeling about this?
Yeah.
Yeah. that's what I thought.
Go ahead and deal.
One on the rocks.
(WHISPERS) I'm in.
Tattooed Russian.
There's another
tattooed Russian.
There's a whole table
of tattooed Russians.
Apparently. there are
a lot more Russians in
Chinatown than I thought.
So. the Russians
are regulars here.
but only a handful of them
play at the no-limit table.
which is where John Allen
would have gone.
The guy said
they're card bullies.
pushing up pots.
forcing their opponents
to bet more just to stay
in the game.
RYAN: You think he has
any idea he's recapping
a conversation
that we just heard
in its entirety?
Give the guy a gadget.
he thinks he's Bond.
Let's just hope
he remembers he's
wearing a camera
before he goes and takes a leak.
Why would you even...
Trust me.
CASTLE: what kind of
trouble I can stir up.
I'm going to go
sit at the table.
see if I can find anything out.
What did he say?
He just said he's
taking a seat...
That's not the plan.
That's not the plan. Castle!
How's it going?
This is no-limit table.
Which is perfect.
because I am a no-limit
kind of guy.
Change for 20.000. please.
BECKETT: No. no.
no. no. no. no!
No! What's he doing?
Dropping half
my yearly salary like
it was pocket change.
Nice tats.
Tat... No. tattoos.
The tat... It's nice.
What do they say?
It says mind
your own business
and play cards.
All right.
Don't mean to pry.
I'm just...
I'm actually
just a writer.
I'm just doing
a little bit of
research.
RUSSIAN: A writer. huh?
Anything we might have heard of?
Storm Fall. Storm's Last Stand.
Derrick Storm.
Yeah.
I love this guy.
Why did you kill him?
It's a long story.
But I'm working on
a new one
about underground poker.
Very hush-hush.
I just kind of came
down here to get a feel
for the world. you know?
And you.
you want for it
to be authentic.
Exactly.
No problem.
(SPEAKING IN RUSSIAN)
Yeah.
RYAN: Seems like
he's making friends.
They just said
they're gonna take him
for everything he's got.
What. you speak Russian?
Semester in Kiev
between junior
and senior year.
Sometimes. when I am bored.
I go to Glechik Cafe
in Little Odessa
and pretend to be Muscovite.
Now. that's kind of hot.
Raise.
Call.
I call.
Check the players' hands.
See if there's anything
that'll explain
the bruise patterns
on our vic's neck.
Call.
Mr. Castle. tell me
a little bit more
about this book.
Well. it's about
a Russian mobster
with a taste for cards.
He preys off of desperation.
luring people into betting
more than they have.
And why would he do this?
Because he's also a loan shark.
See. he fronts his victims
and makes bank on the vig.
What the hell's he doing?
He's playing poker.
He's trying to provoke
one of these guys into
giving up their hand.
Or he's trying to
tip off our killer.
CASTLE: But this one guy.
a family guy. he gets
in a little too deep.
He can't pay the loan back.
So the mobster got no choice.
Has to kill him.
send a message to
anyone else who owes him.
So one night. he lures him
into an abandoned building.
strangles him to death
and throws him off the roof.
Sounds like lot of work.
Why not just put
bullet in his head?
Much more simple.
Bang.
Oh. my God.
Hey. Ryan. check this out.
What is he doing
with his finger?
BECKETT:
Punch in on that.
It's a prosthetic.
That's why it didn't
leave a mark on our vic.
That's our guy.
Hey. if he thinks
Castle's a threat.
he's...
We gotta get him
out of there. now.
Their security's
pretty well-armed.
We go in as cops.
it might get messy.
What are you doing?
I'm gonna go in there.
And if I'm
not out in 10 minutes.
you guys call for backup.
Can I have my purse. please?
What're you gonna do?
Lip gloss them to death?
Something like that.
Come on. boys.
My boyfriend is waiting.
He is player.
If I don't go inside.
he will lose.
I'm his lucky charm.
you know? No?
Well. maybe I can be
a lucky charm for you.
We win. and when I'm
in there we always win.
and then maybe I can share
some of my boyfriend's luck
with you.
All in.
It's a big pot.
Mr. Writer Man.
All that money.
But then what is money
to a millionaire. huh?
You just can write
it off on your taxes
as doing research.
CASTLE: All in.
(CHUCKLING)
You are like character
in your book. in too deep.
Three queens.
That's very impressive.
Not a lot can beat three queens.
Except an inside straight.
maybe. Sweetheart. this is
for you.
Would you change this
into something a little
smaller that I can carry?
Now that is a big pile of money.
But what's money
to a mobster. right?
Walk.
Who are you?
I told you.
I'm. I'm a novelist.
The story.
The dead man. the roof.
Who told you? Who knows?
His family knows.
His children know.
If he paid what he owed.
he'd be home with them now.
But he crossed me.
And now you have
crossed me.
No. no. no. no.
I'm just a writer.
Do not lie!
You are cop.
Him. a cop?
Don't make me laugh.
He's barely even a man.
Beckett?
But you are a man. aren't you?
A very handsome man.
Richard. are you bothering
this handsome man?
Go away.
Okay. Boys and their guns.
Am I supposed to be
impressed?
It doesn't concern you.
Actually...
It does.
Is it just my imagination
or did you change?
Castle. could you get
some backup. please?
Yeah. Yeah.
Quiet.
Thank you.
This way.
So. how is she?
It's hard when everything
you thought you knew
turns out to be a lie.
Well. not everything
was a lie. Not her
husband's love.
I mean. sometimes we do
the wrong things for
the right reasons.
So our case is closed.
I guess your Cosmo story
gets a happy ending.
Speaking of happy endings.
thanks for saving my life.
I was just trying
to avoid paperwork.
We make a pretty good team.
you know.
Like Starsky and Hutch.
Tango and Cash.
Turner and Hooch.
You know. now that
you mention it. you do
remind me a little of Hooch.
Mmm.
It's because
you're afraid.
isn't it?
You're afraid that
if you look into
your mother's death.
that you'll go back
down that rabbit hole
and lose yourself again.
But it's different this time.
We have good leads.
We have strong leads.
And you won't
have to do it alone.
We can do it together.
What if I don't wanna know?
Did you ever think of that?
What if I'm not ready?
What if the idea
of catching
my mom's murderer
and then having to
sit there and watch
as he cuts some deal
that puts him back
out on the street
in 10 years
makes me nauseous?
You dredged up my past
for you. Castle.
not for me.
and you're too selfish
to even see it.
The case is closed. Castle.
We made a deal.
and I expect you
to honor it.
You're writing?
It's time.
And Beckett?
I'm sorry. Dad.
So how was the movie?
We didn't go.
Why not?
Owen.
What happened?
He was playing video games
and lost track of time.
By the time he showed up.
it was too late.
Sorry. sweetie.
And then when he did
show up. he tried to act
like it's no big deal.
Like I'm overreacting.
I mean. he didn't even call.
Why do boys do that?
Why do they always have
to justify everything?
Why can't they just
say they're sorry?
Thank you.
For what?
For just being you.
I'm sorry.
What I did was wrong.
I violated your trust.
I opened old wounds.
and I did not respect
your wishes.
And if we're not gonna
see each other again.
then you deserve to know...
I'm very. very sorry.
BECKETT: Castle.
I'll see you tomorrow.